 
* WindowsKey+D is the shortcut command to minimize all windows or show desktop command

* uname -a
This command provides detailed information about the system's kernel and operating system. When you run this command in the terminal, it outputs a single line containing various pieces of information.

Here’s a breakdown of what you might see when you execute uname -a:

Kernel Name: The type of kernel (e.g., Linux).
Hostname: The name of your machine on the network.
Kernel Release: The version of the kernel.
Kernel Version: More detailed version information about the kernel.
Architecture: The hardware architecture (e.g., x86_64).
Operating System: The operating system name (if applicable).
For example, the output might look something like this:

Code

Copy Code
Linux q4ospc 6.1.0-41-amd64 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Debian 6.1.158-1 (2025-11-09) x86_64 GNU/Linux
Breakdown of Example Output
Linux: Kernel name.
q4ospc: Hostname.
6.1.0-41-amd64: Kernel release version.
#1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Debian 6.1.158-1 (2025-11-09): Detailed kernel version and build information.
x86_64: Architecture.
GNU/Linux: Operating system.

*dpkg -s package_name
This command is used on Debian-based Linux distributions (like Debian itself, Ubuntu, etc.) to display the status and details of a specific package installed on the system.

* pip list
Displays all installed packages.

* pip show pandas
Displays details of the specific python package.

* pip check
Verifies all packages are correct.

* find / -name test.c
This command is used in Linux to search for a file named test.c starting from the root directory (/). Here’s what each part of the command does:

Command Breakdown
find: This is the command used to search for files and directories in a directory hierarchy.
/: This specifies the starting point for the search, which in this case is the root directory. The search will include all directories and subdirectories.
-name: This option tells find to look for files that match the specified name pattern.
test.c: This is the name of the file you are searching for.


* cat -n test.c
* nl test.c
Both commands are used to display file contents with line numbers on screen or terminal.

The cat command in Linux is a versatile tool used primarily for working with text files. Here are the key uses and options:

Common Uses of the cat Command
1. Displaying Contents of a File
You can use cat to display the contents of a file in the terminal:
   cat filename.txt
2. Concatenating Multiple Files
The cat command can combine multiple files into one. For example:

   cat file1.txt file2.txt > combined.txt
This command takes the contents of file1.txt and file2.txt and writes them into combined.txt.

3. Appending to a File
To append the contents of one file to another, use:

   cat file1.txt >> file2.txt
This appends file1.txt to file2.txt.

4. Numbering Output Lines
To display the contents of a file with line numbers, use:

   cat -n filename.txt

5. Creating a New File
You can create a new file and add text to it by using cat with the > operator:

   cat > newfile.txt
After running this, type your text. To save and exit, press CTRL + D.

6. Displaying Non-Printable Characters
To view non-printable characters in a file, use:

   cat -v filename.txt
